1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

a. Making coffee;
   A: 
      GET coffee maker and cup
      Put filter in the filter basket
      Determine how much coffee ground and water needed
      Turn on coffee maker and make sure coffee is completely brewed
       Pour the coffee on the cup

b. Washing dishes;
  A:
      GET plates that needs washing
      Wash plates with water to get off some grease
      Place plates on dish washer
      Add dish washing soap 
      Turn on dish washer and wait until finish
      Dry the dishes

c. A choice of your own.
  A:
     Washing Clothes
     Get dirty clothes
     Place clothes on the washing machine
     Add detergent and liquid softener
     Turn on washing machine and wait until finish
     Get wet clothes and place them on the dryer
     Turn on dryer and wait until finish
     Get clothes THEN fold/hang clothes

2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?
  A:
    1. UPS - UPS saved its drivers 85 million miles a year, resulting in annual savings of $2.55 billion by following its telematics and algorithm,
    2. Tesla -  They applied algorithms to their A.I. to develop self-driving (driverless) cars in the consumer market.
    3. Facebook - Their algorithm makes it easy for their user to use facebook and makes it easier to socialized or connects with other people.

3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.
    A:
      A efficient algorithm makes things easier to execute and actually makes a system better and easier to understand. Efficient algorithm also has complexity and capacity.